
This directory contains the code to download and re-format data from
Gain Capital.

getit:
  getit.c is a program to download the data from the Gain Capital web site.
  It uses wget and it's knowledge of how the data is stored on their site
  to download all of the individual files. The results are stored in 
  directories, one for each year, similar to the way they are on the Gain
  Capital site. getit uses the "fixextension" script to rename files 
  when needed.

  NOTE: there are some problems in Gain Capital's data. It is necessary
  to fix up some of them after downloading, because they have incorrect
  filenames, etc.  Most of these errors show up when running repackit.

repackit:
  repackit.c is a program to reformat the Gain Capital data.  It goes through
  the directories created by getit, extracting each zip file and processing
  the contents.  The temporary results are stored in the directory 
  "data.reorganized" The format of the resulting files is in database_format.h

mergesort:
  mergesort.c sorts the reorganized tick data, removing duplicates.
  Results stay in "data.reorganized" The format of the input and
  output data files is in database_format.h

convert_time:
  convert_time.c copies the sorted files from data.reorganized and changes
  their format from database_format.h to the final format described
  in data_rec.h  This converts the time+serial representation into a
  high-resolution timestamp, and reduces file size by 33%. Convert_time
  also looks for any "suspicious" data records and deletes them.
  The results are stored in the data.final directory.

findgaps:
  findgaps.c takes a file from the data.final directory and checks to
  see if there is missing data.  It knows that the market opens on
  Sunday evening at 22:00 hours UTC (GMT), and closes on Friday
  evening at 22:00 hours UTC (GMT).  It does not report gaps between
  Friday at 22:00 and the following Sunday at 22:00.  Other than that,
  it checks to make sure that there are at least N ticks in each
  10 minute period.

plotdata:
  plotdata.c takes a specified binary data file from the data.final
  directory and creates an ascii text file from it.  The output file
  is made of a series of rows of the form "timestamp bid ask" where
  timestamp is the number of seconds after January 1, 1970.  All
  timestamps are in numerical order, and all rows contain valid data.





